1. Species Table

Part I - CREATE new table 'species' with the following fields
id
current_name
latin_name
description 
Add a primary key to the table

The engine must be InnoDB;

Part II - INSERT into the table created the following
Dog 
Canis familiaris 
A domesticated carnivorous mammal that typically has a long snout, and an acute sense of smell.

Cat
Felis catus
A small domesticated carnivorous mammal with soft fur, a short snout, and retractile claws.

Turtle
Testudo hermanni
A slow-moving reptile, enclosed in a scaly or leathery domed shell into which it can retract its head and thick legs.

Parrot
Alipiopstitta xanthops
A bird, often vividly colored, with a short down-curved hooked bill, grasping feet, and a raucous voice, found esp. in the tropics and feeding on fruits and seeds.

Part III - Add a new column: species_id in animals
Replace the old species name with the new species id from the species table
Delete the old species column
Add Foreign Key

Part IV - Test: 
INSERT INTO animals(name, species_id, dob)
VALUES ('George', 5, '2009-02-23 12:54:00') -it should fail

Part V - Make column species_id  not null
Add a unique index on columns name and species_id

2. Races 
Part I - CREATE new table 'races' with the following fields
id
name
species_id
description
Add a primary key to the table
Add the reference key of the species
The engine must be InnoDB;

Part II - INSERT records into the table created.
INSERT INTO race (name, species_id, description)
VALUES 
('Affenpinscher', 1, 'An Affenpinscher generally weighs 6.5 to 13.2 pounds (2.9 to 6.0 kg) and stands 9 to 12 inches (23 to 30 cm) tall at the withers.'),
('Boxer', 1, 'The breed standard dictates that it must be in perfect proportion to the body and above all it must never be too light.[3] The greatest value is to be placed on the muzzle being of correct form and in absolute proportion to the skull.'),
('American Bully', 1, 'According to the American Bully Kennel Club the American bully has a well-defined, powerful appearance with straight, muscular legs. The head is medium-length and broad with a well-defined stop and high-set ears, which may be natural or cropped.'),
('American Curl', 2, 'The American Curl is a breed of cat characterized by its unusual ears, which curl back from the face toward the center of the back of the skull.'),
('Abyssinian', 2, 'The Abyssinian has alert, relatively large pointed ears. The head is broad and moderately wedge-shaped. Its eyes are almond-shaped and colors include gold, green, hazel, or copper. The paws are small and oval. The legs are slender in proportion to the body, with a fine bone structure. The Abyssinian has a fairly long tail, broad at the base and tapering to a point.'),
('Bengal', 2, 'Bengal cats have "wild-looking" markings, such as large spots, rosettes, and a light/white belly, and a body structure reminiscent of the leopard cat. A Bengals rosette spots occur only on the back and sides, with stripes elsewhere. The breed typically also features "mascara" (horizontal striping alongside the eyes), and foreleg striping.'),
('Chausie', 2, 'Chausies are bred to be medium to large in size, as compared to traditional domestic breeds (Chausie breed standard). Most Chausies are a little smaller than a male Maine Coon, for example, but larger than a Siamese. Adult Chausie males typically weigh 9 to 15 pounds. Adult females are usually 7 to 10 pounds.'),

Part III - Add a new column: race_id in animals
--update the animals table with the race
Affenpinscher : 1, 13, 20, 18, 22, 25, 26, 28
Boxer: 12, 14, 19, 7
American Bully: 23, 17, 21, 27
American Curl: 33, 35, 37, 41, 44, 31, 3
Abyssinian: 43, 40, 30, 32, 42, 34, 39, 8
Bengal: 29, 36, 38
Part IV - Add race to animals (fk)
Part V - Add Foreign Key


3. Parents
Part I - Add fields: mother_id and father_id
Part II - Add Foreign Key to both (reference table is the same table)
Part III - Give some animals a mother and a father.
--update animal table with mother and father id
id 1	:   mother_id = 18 father_id = 22
id 10	:  	mother_id = 7 father_id = 21
id 3	:   	mother_id = 41 father_id = 31
id 2	:	mother_id = 40 father_id = 30


